{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;\f1\fnil LucidaSans-Typewriter;}
\smartcopy0
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\grayb1000\cb1\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs24\gray0\fc2\cf2 Quick Overview:\

\b0 \
	CPU monitors the usage of your machine's cpu(s). You can view a single cpu, or view\
an average of all cpu(s) activity. CPU uses the kernel VM library to gather data, so it does not\
need to be setuid/setgid.\
\
	CPU shows three separate rings as a history mechanism. The innermost ring responds\
very quickly to changes in system usage. As you move out from the innermost ring, CPU provides\
a configurable step mechanism to show longer term utilization.\
\
	Each ring displays four colors. The defaults are:\
	\
		Red:				Kernel time\
		Yellow:			Wait time\
		Blue:			User time\
		White:			Idle time\
		\
	You can change these colors to your taste with the color wells in the Preferences panel.\
	\
	CPU  takes a sample of system activity every second by default  This period can be increased\
or decreased in Preferences as well.\
\

\b Preferences:\
\
	
\b0 Update period:		This is the amount of time, in seconds, between samples. You may\
						use any value that is greater than zero. Very small values may use\
						a significant amount of cpu time just to update CPU's display.\
	\
	Smoothing factor:		This is the number of samples averaged together to 'smooth out'\
						the inner rings display. The minimum value is 1, the maximum is\
						4096. Note that it is possible to make the inner ring update less\
						frequently than the outer rings by setting an unusual value.\
						\
	Layering factor:		The number of samples averaged per ring 'step'.  The default value\
						of 16 means the middle ring will be an average of 16 samples, and the\
						outermost ring will be an average of 256 samples. The minimum value\
						is 1, and the maximum is 64. Note that with a layering factor of 64 and\
						an update period of 1.0, the outer ring will show a history of  over an\
						hour.\
						\
	Monitor (Popup):		This popup will have one entry for each cpu in your machine, plus an\
						entry for 'All'. If you select an individual cpu, the display will reflect\
						that cpu's load only. If you select 'All', the display will be an average\
						of all the cpu(s) in your machine.
\b \

\b0 	\
	Color Wells:			Drag and drop any color swatch into these to change the displayed\
						color for that attribute.
}
