.TH DREAD 1 "13/06/96" "Sun Microsystems, Inc." "OpenStep Commands"
.SH NAME
dread \- read from the defaults database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft L
.nf
\fBdread\fR \fB-l\fR
\fBdread\fR [ \fIowner\fR ] \fIname\fR
\fBdread\fR \fB-g\fR \fIname\fR
\fBdread\fR \fB-n\fR \fIname\fR
\fBdread\fR \fB-o\fR \fIowner\fR
.fi
.br
.ft R
.PP
.ft L
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dread
looks through the user's defaults database
for a variable and its associated value, and
outputs this information to the standard output.
.I owner
is the application associated with the variable
\fIname\fR
(\fIowner\fR may instead have the value ``GLOBAL'' or ``System'').
.PP
The \fB-l\fR option displays all the variables and default values in the
database.  To display a subset of the database, other options can be
used instead:
.TP
\fBdread\fR [ \fIowner\fR ] \fIname\fR
Searches for \fIowner\fR's value for the variable.
If no owner application is
specified, the owner GLOBAL is searched.
.TP
\fBdread\fR \fB-g\fR \fIname\fR
Searches the owner GLOBAL for a value of the variable.
This is the same as using
the previous option with no owner specified.
.TP
\fBdread\fR \fB-n\fR \fIname\fR
Searches all possible owners for a value of the variable.
.TP
\fBdread\fR \fB-o\fR \fIowner\fR
Searches the specifed owner application for the values of all its variables.
.PP
The \fIowner\fR, \fIname\fR, and \fIvalue\fR fields output by dread are
separated by spaces, so that those values can be used as
input to \fIdwrite\fR.
For example:
.PP
.RS
dread -l | sed s/LucidaSans/Helvetica/ | dwrite
.RE
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dwrite(1), dremove(1)
