.\" "@(#) dwrite.1, Rev 1.4, 97/03/17"
.\"
.\"	Copyright (c) 1995-1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"     portions (c) Copyright 1994, NeXT Computer, Inc.
.\"     All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH DWRITE 1 "22 Jul 1996" "Sun Microsystems, Inc." "OpenStep Commands"
.SH NAME
dwrite \- write to the defaults database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft L
\fBdwrite\fR
.br
\fBdwrite\fR \fIowner\fR \fIname\fR \fIvalue\fR
.br
\fBdwrite\fR \fB-g\fR \fIname\fR \fIvalue\fR
.br
.ft R
.PP
.ft L
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dwrite
writes a variable and its value into the user's defaults database.  
If no command-line arguments are given, the standard input
(see csh(1)) is read.
.PP
.I owner
is the application associated with the variable
.I name.
.I value
becomes the value of the variable
.I name.
If -g is
specified, the value of the variable holds for all applications that
access the variable.  It is a global backdrop
variable.
.PP
There are two ways a default value for a variable can be set, and one way
a default value can be overridden.  From lowest precedence to highest
precedence, these are:
.PP
.nf
	The default value may be set with the -g flag.
	The default value may be set for a particular application.
	The default value may be overridden by a command line option.
.fi
.PP
For example,
the following command would make Courier the default value of the NSFont
variable in all applications that
don't have their own application-specific default value:
.PP
.nf
	dwrite -g NSFont Courier
.fi
.PP
If an application-specific default value is not found in the database, this
global default value is used (assuming, of course, that the
application checks for the value of this variable).  So Edit, as well
as other applications, would start to use Courier font by default.
The following command would cause
Edit to override the global value for the Font variable and use
Helvetica instead:
.PP
.nf
	dwrite Edit NSFont Helvetica
.fi
.PP
Other applications that access
the NXFont variable would continue to use Courier.
.PP
To override either the
global or application-specific default value for a single session,
specify a value for the appropriate command-line option when launching the application.
For example:
.PP
.nf
	Edit -NSFont Courier
.fi
.PP
The \fIowner\fR, \fIname\fR, and \fIvalue\fR fields output by dread are
separated by spaces, so that those values can be used as
input to \fIdwrite\fR.
For example:
.PP
.RS
dread -l | sed s/LucidaSans/Helvetica/ | dwrite
.RE
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dread(1), dremove(1), csh(1)
