.\" "@(#) osalert.1, Rev 1.0, 97/02/13"
.\"
.\"     Copyright (c) 1996-1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"     All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH osalert 1 "13 Feb 1997" "" "OpenStep Commands"
.if n .tr \--
.SH NAME
osalert \- provides a standard OpenStep alert panel
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBosalert\fR \fB-t\fR \fItitle\fR \fB-i\fR \fIicon\fR \fB-V\fR \fB-H\fR [\fImessage\fR] [\fIbutton1\fR] [\fIbutton2\fR] [\fIbutton3\fR]
.br
.ft R
.PP
.ft L
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B osalert 
command provides access to a standard OpenStep
alert panel as implemented by the NSRunAlertPanel()
function using the NSPanel class in the Application Kit.
The arguments to 
.B osalert 
can change all of the standard attributes of the alert panel.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported.
.TP
.BI \-t " title"
Specify the title of the alert panel window.  By default it is Alert.
.TP
.BI \-i  " icon"
Specify a path to a TIFF image file to be displayed in the upper
left corner of the alert panel.
.TP
.B \-V
Output version information.
.TP
.B \-H
Output verbose help to stdout.
.TP
.I "message"
The main message of the panel.
.TP
.I "button1"
The string for the default button.
.TP
.I "button2"
The string for the alternate button.
.TP
.I "button3"
The string for the other alternate button.

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit statuses are returned:
.TP 8
.B -1
An error occurred, or the usage was incorrect.
.TP
.B 0
The default button was pressed (button1).
.TP
.B 1
The alternate button was pressed (button2).
.TP
.B 2
The other alternate button was pressed (button3).

.SH BUGS
If the TIFF image is not specified, the default application
icon should be substituted automatically but currently is not.

.TE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ossave (1),
.BR osopen (1)

.if n .tr \-\-
