.\" "@(#) oscopy.1, Rev 1.2, 97/03/17"
.\"
.\"	Copyright (c) 1995-1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"     portions (c) Copyright 1994, NeXT Computer, Inc.
.\"     All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH COPY 1 "22 Jul 1996" "Sun Microsystems, Inc." "OpenStep Commands"
.SH NAME
copy, paste \- provide copying and pasting from command line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/bin/copy
.PP
.B /usr/bin/paste
[
.B \-Prefer {ascii | rtf | ps}
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B copy
takes the standard input and places it in the OpenStep(tm)
pasteboard.
The input is placed in the pasteboard as
ASCII data unless it begins with the 
Adobe Systems Encapsulated PostScript 
file header or the Microsoft Rich Text Format
file header, in which case it is placed
in the pasteboard as one of those data types.
.PP
.B paste
removes the data from the pasteboard and writes it to
the standard output.  It normally looks first for ASCII
data in the pasteboard and writes that to the standard output;
if no ASCII data is in the pasteboard it looks for 
Encapsulated PostScript; if no EPS if present it looks
for Rich Text.  If none of those types is present in the
pasteboard, \fBpaste\fR produces no output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-Prefer {ascii | rtf | ps}
tells
.B paste
what type of data to look for in the pasteboard first.
As stated above, 
.B paste
normally looks first for ASCII data; however, by 
specifying
.B -Prefer ps
you can tell 
.B paste 
to look first for Encapsulated
PostScript.  If you specify
\fB-Prefer rtf\fR,
.B paste 
looks first for Rich Text format.  In any case,
.B paste
looks for the other formats if the preferred one is not
found.
.SH BUGS
There is no way to tell
.B paste
to get 
.I only
a specified data type.
