.\" "@(#) osopen.1, Rev 1.0, 97/02/13"
.\"
.\"     Copyright (c) 1996-1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"     All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH osopen 1 "13 Feb 1997" "" "OpenStep Commands"
.if n .tr \--
.SH NAME
osopen \- provides a standard OpenStep open panel
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBosopen\fR \fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR \fB-d\fR \fIdirectory\fR \fB-e\fR \fItypes\fR \fB-p\fR \fIprompt\fR \fB-t\fR \fItitle\fR \fB-i\fR \fIicon\fR \fB-m\fR \fB-c\fR \fB-V\fR \fB-H\fR 
.br
.ft R
.PP
.ft L
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B osopen 
command provides access to a standard OpenStep
open panel as implemented by the NSOpenPanel class in
the Application Kit.  The arguments to 
.B osopen 
can change all of the standard attributes of the open panel.  The
file or files chosen are written to stdout separated by a newline.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported.
.TP
.BI \-f " file"
Specify the name of the file in initial directory to
select.
.TP
.BI \-d " directory"
Specify a path to a directory that will be the initial location
of the open panel.  If this is not specified, it defaults to the
user's home directory.
.TP
.BI \-e " types"
Specify each file type (e.g., tiff, eps, or c) that is an allowable
selection.  The open panel will only display names which have the
types specified.  If no type is specified, all files are displayed.
.TP
.BI \-p " prompt"
Specify the title for the form where the user types the file name.
.TP
.BI \-t " title"
Specify the title of the open panel window.  By default it is Open.
.TP
.BI \-i  " icon"
Specify a path to a TIFF image file to be displayed in the upper
left corner of the window.
.TP
.B \-m
Allow the selection of multiple files.
.TP
.B \-c
Allow directories to be chosen rather than files.
.TP
.B \-V
Output version information.
.TP
.B \-H
Output verbose help to stdout.

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit statuses are returned:
.TP 8
.B 0
The
.B osopen
command executed without error and the files selected
have been written to stdout.
.TP
.B -1
An error occurred, or the usage was incorrect.

.SH BUGS
If the TIFF image is not specified, the default application
icon should be substituted automatically but currently is not.

.TE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ossave (1),
.BR osalert (1)

.if n .tr \-\-
