.\" Copyright (c) 1997 - Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.TH oswm 1 "06 Feb 1997"
.IX "oswm" "" "\f3oswm\f1(1) \(em OpenStep window manager" "" PAGE START
.IX "Solaris OpenStep" "Open" "WorkShop OpenStep" "OpenStep window manager \(em \f3oswm\f1(1)" PAGE START
.IX "OpenStep" "Open" "OpenStep" "OpenStep window manager \(em \f3oswm\f1(1)" PAGE START
.SH NAME
oswm \- OpenStep window manager for Solaris OpenStep
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oswm
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Oswm
is a window manager that implements
parts of the Solaris OpenStep graphical user interface.  Oswm is based on the OPEN LOOK window manager and supports Sun's Solaris OpenStep and WorkShop OpenStep products.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Most command-line options have counterparts in the resource database.  A 
command-line option will override any setting from the resource database.
.TP
\fB\-bg\fP\ \fIcolor,\fP\ \ \fB\-background\fP\ \fIcolor 
Specifies the color of the title bars of inactive windows.
.TP
.BR \-c ",\ \ " \-click
Use click-to-focus mode.  This is the default focus mode.
.TP
.BI "\-depth " depth
Specifies the depth of the visual in which
.B oswm
is to run.  See the discussion in the Screen Resources section for further
information about depths.
.TP
.BI "\-display " display-string
Specify the name of the display to manage.  Overrides the DISPLAY
environment variable, if any.  In addition, the display string is exported
to
.BR oswm 's
environment, so processes forked from
.B oswm
will inherit this value.
.TP
.B \-dsdm
Specify that
.B oswm
should provide the Drop Site Database Management (DSDM) service.  This is
the default.
.TP
.BR \-f ",\ \ " \-follow
Use focus-follows-mouse mode.  Default mode is click-to-focus.
.TP
\fB\-fn\fP\ \fIfont-name,\fP\ \ \fB\-font\fP\ \ \fIfont-name\fP
Set the font for window titles.
.TP
\fB\-fg\fP\ \fIcolor,\fP\ \ \fB\-foreground\fP\ \fIcolor 
Specifies the foreground color.  See the description of the
.B ForegroundColor
resource.
.TP
\fB\-kbg\fP\ \fIcolor,\fP\ \ \fB\-keybackground\fP\ \fIcolor 
Specifies the background color of the title bar of the key window.
.TP
\fB\-kfg\fP\ \fIcolor,\fP\ \ \fB\-keyforeground\fP\ \fIcolor 
Specifies the foreground color of the title bar of the key window.
.TP
.BI "\-multi"
Manage windows on all screens that a display supports.
This is the default.
.TP
.BI "\-name " resource-name
Use
.I resource-name
to look up resources in the resource database.
.TP
.B \-nodsdm
Specify that
.B oswm
should not provide the Drop Site Database Management service.  The default
is to provide the service.
.TP
.BI "\-single"
Manage windows for a single screen only, using the default screen
for the specified display.  Overrides the
.B \-multi
option.
.TP
.BI "\-syncpid " process-id
When
.B oswm
has completed its initialization, it will send a signal (SIGALRM by default)
to
.I process-id.
The signal will be sent only if this option is present.
This is useful for running
.B oswm
from shell scripts (such as
.BR .xinitrc )
in such a way that the script waits for
.B oswm
to finish its initialization, while leaving
.B oswm
as a child process of the shell script.
This can be done using the following
.BR sh (1)
construct:
.nf
.sp
	sleep 15 & pid=$!
	oswm \-syncpid $pid &
	wait $pid
.sp
.fi
.TP
.BI "\-syncsignal " signal
Specifies the signal to send instead of SIGALRM.  The signal is specified as
a number, not symbolically.
.TP
.BI "\-visual " visual-class
Specifies the class of the visual in which
.B oswm
is to run.  See the discussion in the Screen Resources section for further
information about visuals.
.TP
.BI "\-xrm " resource-string
Specify resources on the command-line.  Resources specified here will override
resources found in resource files.
.\" ========================================================================
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are strictly for debugging.  They are not recommended
for general use.  Don't use them
unless you know what you are doing.
.TP
.B \-all
Print a message for every event received.
.TP
.B \-debug
Equivalent to turning on all debugging options.
.TP
.B \-orphans
Print orphaned events.  Orphaned events are 
events that are associated with a window or frame that has no entry in
the frame hash table, or events that are not handled by the various
event handlers.
.TP
.B \-warnings
Print warnings from X protocol errors
.TP
.B \-synchronize
Run the window manager in synchronous mode.
.SH INTERNATIONALIZATION OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-basiclocale " locale-name
Specifies the basic X/Open locale category setting.
This category will be the base for other locale categories.
.TP
.BI "\-displaylang " locale-name
Specifies the display language X/Open locale category.
This category affects the contents of workspace menu,
window menu and notice messages.
.TP
.BI "\-numeric " locale-name
Specifies the numeric format X/Open locale category.
This category affects the numeric format displayed in
any message that contains numerics.
.SH LOCALE HANDLING
.PP
The 
.I locale
is the set of language and cultural conventions used by a program.
The locale controls the language-dependent part of
.BR oswm 's
behavior.
The OPEN LOOK international extensions have defined
several locale categories as follows:
.TP
.B "Basic Locale"
This is the basic setting for the entire locale mechanism.
This category specifies internal character handling behavior.
.TP
.B "Display Language"
This category specifies the language used for displaying menus,
notice messages, and error messages.
.TP
.B "Input Language"
This category specifies the language used for text input.
This category has no effect on
.BR oswm ,
because it does not accept text input from the keyboard.
.TP
.B "Date Format"
This category specifies the format of date and time.
This category has no effect on
.BR oswm ,
because it does not display any date and time information.
.TP
.B "Numeric Format"
This category specifies the format of displayed numeric data.
.PP
The Basic Locale setting determines the character set used by
.BR oswm .
The other locale categories can differ from the basic setting, but they
cannot require a different character set from the
Basic Locale.  The following restrictions thus apply:
.IP 1. 3
If basic locale setting is the "C" locale, then
all other locale categories must be in the "C" locale.
.IP 2.
If the Basic Locale is set to a locale other than the "C" locale, then all
other locale categories must be set either to a locale that uses the same
character set as the basic setting, or to the "C" locale.
.PP
The following methods are available to inform 
.B oswm
of the locale settings, listed in order of priority:
.IP 1. 3
Command line options (such as \fB\-basiclocale\fP);
.IP 2.
by resource database; and
.IP 3.
.BR setlocale (3C)
function defaults (e.g. LANG environment variable).
.SH INPUT FOCUS
The
.I
input focus
is the window that will receive keystrokes.
.B oswm
has two different input focus modes,
which are different ways of transferring the input focus from one
window to another.  By default,
.B oswm
uses "click-to-focus" (also known as "click-to-type") mode.  This means that
you must click on the window in order to get the focus to it.  While a
window has the input focus, the pointer can be anywhere on the screen; the
keyboard events will still go to that window.  You can set the input focus
to a window and simultaneously raise it to the top by clicking the left
mouse button in the window's title bar or border.
.LP
.B oswm
has another focus mode called "focus-follows-mouse".  In this mode, whatever
window the mouse is pointing to will receive the input focus.  To switch the
input focus from one window to another, you simply move the pointer to the
other window; you don't have to click at all.  Note, however, that to
transfer the focus amongst subwindows of a single top-level window, you must
click in the subwindow, or you must use focus transfer function keys (if
available from the application).
.LP
The input focus mode can be controlled with command-line options or by
entries in the resource database.  Neither focus mode has inherent
advantages.  Which one you choose is a matter of personal preference.
.SH MOUSE BUTTONS
OpenStep defines two mouse button functions: SELECT and MENU.
On systems with three mouse buttons, these functions are mapped to buttons
1 and 3 (left and right) respectively.  On systems with two
mouse buttons, SELECT is on button 1 (left) and MENU is on button 2 (right).
On systems with a single mouse button, that button is SELECT.  
.SH MANIPULATING WINDOWS AND ICONS
.I
Window Title Bar and Borders.
.PP
Clicking SELECT selects the window, raises it above other windows, and
deselects any other objects.  In click-focus mode, the focus is also
transferred to this window.  Pressing and holding SELECT and then dragging
the mouse will move windows without raising them or setting the focus.  If
this window is selected, it and all other selected windows are moved
simultaneously.  Otherwise, just this window is moved, and it is not
selected.  If you hold down the Control key while you are moving a window,
motion in both the vertical and horizontal directions is slower. 
.LP
When you move a window or an icon, it will pause when it touches the edge of
the screen.  This is to allow you to easily position windows right up
against the edge of the screen.  If you move farther, the window or icon
will continue to move past the edge. For more information, see the
EdgeMoveThreshold resource.
.LP
Command-clicking SELECT on the title bar lowers the window.
.LP
Alt-clicking SELECT on the title bar raises the window without transferring
the focus to it.
.LP
Double-clicking SELECT on the window is the same as selecting the Full Size
(or Restore Size) menu item. 
.LP
.I
Resize Bar.
.PP
The resize bar is the narrow gray border along the bottom of most windows.
The resize bar is divided into three regions (two end regions and a middle
region).
You can resize a window by pressing and holding SELECT over any of the
resize regions and then dragging the mouse to the new location.
Releasing the mouse button will set the new size of the window.  Dragging
horizontally from an end region changes the width.  Dragging diagonally from
an end region changes the width and height.  Dragging vertically from the
middle region changes the height.
.LP
.I
Miniaturize Button.
.PP
The miniaturize Button is the small button with a miniature window
icon at the left side of the title bar.  If you want to put a window aside
without actually closing it, you can miniaturize it.  When you miniaturize
a window, the window shrinks into a miniwindow icon at the bottom of the
screen.  Clicking SELECT over the miniaturize Button will miniaturize the
window.
.LP
Close Button.
.PP
The close Button is the small button with a X icon at the right side of the
title bar.  When you are finished with a window, you can close it to get rid
of the window completely.  Clicking SELECT over the close Button will close
the window.  On OpenStep windows, a partially drawn close button usually
means that the window contains unsaved work.  When you save, the button
returns to normal.
.LP
.I
Miniwindows.
.PP
An miniwindow represents a closed window.  You can still do most of the same
operations as with an open window.  Moving and selecting miniwindows with SELECT is exactly the same as for open windows. Double-clicking
SELECT will open the miniwindow.  Miniwindows cannot be resized.
..\" ========================================================================
.SH MENU OPERATION
.LP
Each OpenStep application has a main menu that is displayed when you are working in the application. OpenStep menus are operated using the SELECT button. Some commands perform an action on something you have selected, such as text, an icon, or a window. Other commands open a panel--a small window that may ask for more instructions--or another menu called a submenu. 

If the command opens a submenu, the submenu is displayed next to the main menu. A submenu normally closes when you choose another command from the menu that opens it. If you do not want the submenu to close, you can detach it by dragging it by its title bar. The submenu is then displayed until you close it yourself. If you press on the command that opened a detached submenu, another copy of the submenu is displayed next to the main menu. You can drag into this copy to choose a command, but when you release the mouse button it will close.

Oswm pop-up menus are operated using the MENU mouse button.  There
are two methods of operating with the menus: the "click-move-click"
method and the "press-drag-release" method.  You choose the method either by
clicking the MENU button (pressing and releasing it quickly) or by pressing
it down and holding it.  If you click the MENU button, the menu will pop up
and will stay up indefinitely.  To continue operating the menu, click the
MENU button over a menu item.  To dismiss the menu, click the MENU button on
an area of the screen outside the menu.  To operate menus in
press-drag-release mode, press the MENU button and hold it down while you
move the mouse.  The menu will remain on the screen as long as you hold down
the MENU button.  To execute an action, move the pointer over a menu item
and release the mouse button.  To dismiss the menu, move the pointer outside
the menu and release the MENU button.
.LP
Some oswm menu items have a submenus.  This is indicated by a right-pointing
triangle at the right edge of the item.  To activate a submenu, click on the
item (in click-move-click mode) or move the pointer to the item and then move
toward the right edge of the menu (in press-drag-release mode).
.\" ========================================================================
.SH DESKTOP MENU
.LP
Pressing MENU over the workspace brings up the Desktop Menu.  This menu is
customizable, but it typically contains at least the following items.
(The items may appear in a different language depending on the current
locale setting.)
.TP
.B Programs
This item has a sub-menu that allows you to invoke applications.  The
default Programs sub-menu contains all of the programs in the OpenWindows
DeskSet.  However, users typically customize this menu to contain many more
programs and to contain nested sub-menus.  See the section on Menu
Customization for further information.
.TP
.B Utilities
This item has a sub-menu that contains several utility functions for the
workspace, including "Toggle Drag Style" (toggles between dragging window
content and outline), Refresh (redisplay all windows on the screen), and Lock
Screen.
.TP
.B Window List
This item brings up a menu containing the names of every window on the
current screen (if oswm is managing multiple screens, only windows on
the current screen will be shown).  Windows which are iconified are
preceded with a graphic symbol.
.TP
.B OpenWindows Props...
This item brings up the OpenWindows Workspace Properties window, which 
allows you to view and customize settings of the OpenWindows environment.
.TP
.B Workstation Info...
This item displays information about your workstation's environment.
.TP
.B Exit
Shuts down all applications and exits the window system.  A confirmation
notice will appear first to give you a chance to cancel the operation.
.\" ========================================================================
.SH WINDOW MENU
.LP
The window menu of most windows has the following items.
(The items may appear in a different language depending on
the current locale setting.)
.TP
.B Miniaturize 
Turns the window to an miniwindow.  Any Panels that were open are unmapped.
Panels will reappear when the miniwindow is opened.  This item is "Restored"
if you bring up this menu over an miniwindow.
.TP
.B Full Size
Expands the window to the full height of the screen.  If this has already
done, the button is Normal Size instead of Full Size.  Normal Size restores
the window to the size it was before you did the Full Size operation.  If
the application has specified a maximum size for the window, this size is
used for Full Size instead of the full screen height.
.TP
.B Move
Starts the keyboard-based form of moving the window.  Appears only if OPEN
LOOK Mouseless Mode is enabled.
.TP
.B Resize
Starts the keyboard-based form of resizing the window.  Appears only if OPEN
LOOK Mouseless Mode is enabled.
.TP
.B Send to Back
Moves the window behind all other windows.
.TP
.B Refresh
Clears and redisplays the window.
.TP
.B Close
Kills the program running in the window and removes the window.  If the
application has elected to participate in the WM_DELETE_WINDOW protocol,
.B oswm
sends a WM_DELETE_WINDOW ClientMessage instead of killing that window.
.LP
Panels windows (as opposed to primary windows) have a smaller window
menu.  It lacks the Close, Full Size, and Quit items, but it has two new
items:
.TP
.B Close
Causes the window to be closed.  This button has a sub-menu with two
items: This Panel, which closes just this window, and All Panels, which
closes all panel windows owned by this application.
.TP
.B Owner?
Raises and flashes the title bar of the window that "owns" this panel
window.
.\" ========================================================================
.SH MENU CUSTOMIZATION FILES
.LP
You can customize
.BR oswm 's
Desktop Menu by putting a menu description into a file that
.B oswm
will read.  When it starts up,
.B oswm
will first look for a file named by the OSWMMENU environment variable.  If
this variable does not exist, or if the file is not readable,
.B oswm
will then look for a custom OpenStep menu file in your home
directory.  If this file is not present or is unreadable
.B oswm 
will look for a custom menu file in your home
directory.  
Oswm will search for the following files to be used as the oswm Desktop Menu:
.nf
.sp
	$HOME/.openstep-menu
	$HOME/.openwin-menu
	$OPENSTEPHOME/lib/openstep-menu
	$OPENWINHOME/lib/openwin-menu
.sp
.fi
If, for some reason, these menu files cannot be found,
.B oswm
will use a minimal, built-in menu.  The menu file that is read can also be
modified by the display language locale setting.  The locale name is used as
a suffix for the filename.  If a localized menu file is found, it is used in
preference to the non-localized menu file.  For example, if the display
language locale is "japanese", the file 
.B .openstep\-menu.japanese
will take precedence over the file
.BR .openstep\-menu .
If
.B oswm
encounters a syntax error during the reading of any menu file, a message is
printed to the standard error file and the reading of this menu file is
considered to have failed.
.B Oswm
will then attempt to read the next file in the sequence as described above.
.\" ========================================================================
.SH MENU SPECIFICATION SYNTAX
The menu specification language has a number of keywords, all of which are
in all upper case letters.  The keywords are
.I not
translated into the language specified by the the locale category settings.
Keywords are always in English.
.LP
Each line typically specifies one menu button.  There are two fields on
each line: a label and a command.  The
label is either a single word or a string enclosed in double quotes.  This
is the label that appears in the menu button. The rest of the line (excluding leading whitespace) is considered to
be a command.  It is executed by sending it to
.BR sh (1).
Any shell metacharacters will be passed through to the shell unchanged.
The command field can be extended onto the next line by placing a backslash
`\\' at the end of the line.  The newline will not be embedded in the command.
.LP
An sub-menu is specified using the special keyword MENU in place of a
command.  A button is added to the current menu, and clicking or pulling
right on this button will bring up the sub-menu.  Subsequent lines in the
menu file define buttons for the sub-menu, until a line that has the special
keyword END in the command field is encountered.  The label of the MENU
line must match the label on the END line, otherwise an error is signaled.
Sub-menus can be nested arbitrarily, bracketed by MENU and END lines with
matching labels.
.LP
Sub-menus can be defined in a different file using either the MENU or the
INCLUDE keyword.  To include a sub-menu from another file, use a line with a
label, either the MENU or the INCLUDE keyword, and then the filename.  The
file so named is assumed to contain lines that specify menu buttons.  The
sub-menu file need not have any MENU or END lines (unless it has sub-menus
itself).  The current file need not have a matching END line if the sub-menu
is read from another file.  Sub-menu files included with the MENU keyword
are considered to be an integral part of the menu tree, and any error
encountered during reading of the file will cause the entire menu to be
considered invalid.  A sub-menu file included with the INCLUDE keyword is
considered optional, and any error encountered during reading of the file is
not considered fatal.  If an error occurs during INCLUDE processing, a
disabled (grayed-out) item is inserted in place of the sub-menu and
processing of the current menu file continues.
.LP
By default, the label in a menu button is used as the title of the sub-menu.
This can be overridden by specifying a line that has the special keyword
TITLE in the command field.  The label from this line will be used as the
sub-menu's title.  This line can appear anywhere in the sub-menu definition.
It does not add an item to the menu.  
.LP
The following keywords can be used in the command field of a menu item.
They specify functions that are internal to
.B oswm,
that are not invoked by running a shell.
.TP
BACK_SELN
Move the selected windows and icons behind other windows.
.TP
EXIT
.br
Kills all applications and exits the window manager after getting
confirmation from the user.  
This is useful for exiting the entire window system.
.TP
EXIT_NO_CONFIRM
Like EXIT but skips the confirmation notice.
.TP
FLIPDRAG
Toggle the state of the 
.B DragWindow
resource.
.TP
FLIPFOCUS
Toggle the state of the 
.B SetInput
resource.
.TP
FULL_RESTORE_SIZE_SELN
Toggle the full-sized/normal-sized states of the selected windows and icons.
.TP
NOP
.br
No operation; don't do anything.
.TP
OPEN_CLOSE_SELN
Toggle the opened/closed states of the selected windows and icons.
.TP
QUIT_SELN
Quit the selected windows and icons.
.TP
PROPERTIES
Bring up OpenWindows Props.
.TP
REFRESH
Refresh causes all windows on the screen to be repainted.
.TP
REREAD_MENU_FILE
Force an immediate rereading of the workspace menu customization file.  
.B Oswm 
will start a complete search for a menu file (as described in the
.I Menu Customization
section) and use the first valid file it finds.
.TP
RESTART
Restart the window manager by issuing an
.BR exec (2)
on
.B argv.
This shouldn't affect any running applications, nor should it cause the
server to shut down.
.TP
START_DSDM
Start providing the DSDM service.  See the section on Drag and Drop for
further information.
.TP
STOP_DSDM
Stop providing the DSDM service.  See the section on Drag and Drop for
further information.
.TP
WINMENU
Lists all windows on the screen.
.TP
WMEXIT
Exit the window manager without killing any applications.
.LP
Here is an example root menu specification.
.LP
.nf
"My Custom Menu" TITLE
.sp
Programs		 MENU
	"Command Tool"		DEFAULT cmdtool
	"Text Editor"		textedit
	Mail			mailtool
	"File Manager"		filemgr
	Other			MENU
		"Other Tools"		TITLE
		"Shell Tool"		shelltool
		"Icon Editor"		iconedit
		Clock			clock
		"Perf Meter"		DEFAULT perfmeter
	Other			END
Programs		END
.sp
"Repaint Screen"	REFRESH
.sp
Logout		EXIT
.fi
.\" ========================================================================
.SH GLOBAL RESOURCES
.LP
Global resources in
.B oswm
consist of two resource components.
The first component in the resource name is taken from the trailing
pathname component of
.BR argv[0] .
This value is typically `oswm'.  This name can be altered by using the
.B \-name
command-line argument.  The second resource component names the global
attribute being set.  It should be one of the names from the following list.
Thus, to set the
.B DragWindow
attribute, one would use
"oswm.DragWindow" as the resource specification.
.LP
.B Oswm
will automatically pick up changes to many of these resources if the
resource database changes at run-time.  One can thus modify \fBoswm\fP's
behavior by changing the resource database with
.BR xrdb (1)
or with Workspace Properties.
If a resource value is specified on \fBoswm\fP's command line, it will
override the value in the resource database, and thus changing the resource's
value in the database will have no effect on this resource setting.
.LP
Colors can be specified using the formats parsed by the Xlib XParseColor()
function.  Common formats are color names (see
.BR showrgb (1))
and explicit red, green, and blue values in hexadecimal, preceded by a `#'.
For example, a cyan (full green and blue) would be specified with "#00ffff".
.LP
Boolean values can be specified with the words
"true", "false", "on", "off", "yes", "no", "1", "0", "t", and "nil".
.TP
.BI AutoRaise " (boolean)"
Raise windows automatically when they receive the focus.  This is useful in
click-to-focus if you always like to type into the topmost window.  This is
useful in focus-follow-mouse when the
.B AutoRaiseDelay
resource is set to a reasonable value.
.I
Default value: false.
.TP
.BI AutoRaiseDelay " (integer)"
Amount of time to delay, in microseconds, between a window receiving the
focus and raising it above other windows.  Effective only when the value of the
.B AutoRaise
resource is true.
.I
Default value: 0.
..TP
.BI Background " (color)"
Specifies the background color of the title bars of inactive windows.  This is used for the background of miniwindows.
.TP
.BI BasicLocale " (locale name)"
Specifies the basic OPEN LOOK locale category setting.
See the section on Locale Handling for more details.
.TP
.BI DefaultIconImage " (filename)"
Specifies a file containing a bitmap to be used as the default icon image.
.TP
.BI DefaultIconMask " (filename)"
Specifies a file containing a bitmap to be used as the default icon mask.
.TP
.BI DefaultTitle " (string)"
Specifies the string to be used in the title bar of windows that have not
provided a string in the WM_NAME property.
.I
Default value: No Name.
.TP
.BI DisplayLang " (locale name)"
Specifies the display language OPEN LOOK locale category.
See the section on Locale Handling for more details.
.TP
.BI DragThreshold " (integer) " *
This is the number of pixels the mouse must move while a mouse button is down
in order to have the action be considered a drag.  If the mouse moves fewer
than this number of pixels while the button is down, it is considered to be
click instead of a drag.
.I
Default value: 5.
.TP
.BI DragWindow " (boolean)"
If true, drags the entire image of the window when you move it.  Otherwise,
just drags the window outline.
.I
Default value: true.
.TP
.BI EdgeMoveThreshold " (integer)"
Specifies the amount of "hysteresis" provided when moving windows past the
edge of the screen.  When you move a window or an icon, it will pause when
it touches the edge of the screen.  This is to allow you to easily position
windows right up against the edge of the screen.  If you move farther, the
window or icon will continue to move past the edge.  You can prevent windows
from ever lapping off the screen by setting an extremely large value (say,
10000) for
this resource, and you can disable this feature entirely by specifying a
value of zero.
.I
Default value: 10.
.TP
.BI FocusLenience " (boolean)"
If this is set to true, 
.B oswm
will not enforce the ICCCM requirement that windows must have the input hint
set in order to receive the input focus.  This option is useful if you run
clients that aren't ICCCM-compliant, like many X11R3-based clients.
.I
Default value: true.
.TP
.BI Foreground " (color)"
Specifies the foreground color.  This color is used mainly for the text of
window and icon titles and in menus.
.I
Default value: black.
.TP
.BI IconFont " (font name)"
Font used for icon names.
.I
Default: lucidasans-10.
.TP
.BI IconLocation " (enumeration) " *
One of the words "top-lr", "top-rl", "bottom-lr", "bottom-rl", "left-tb",
"left-bt", "right-tb", or "right-bt".  These specify that icons should be
arranged along a particular edge of the screen, ordered from left to right
or top to bottom as appropriate.  The words "top", "bottom", "left", and
"right" are synonyms for "top-lr", "bottom-lr", "left-tb", and "right-tb",
respectively.
.I
Default value: bottom.
.TP
.BI KeepTransientsAbove " (boolean)"
Specifies whether
.B oswm
should attempt to keep transient windows above their owner window.
.I
Default value: false.
.TP
.BI KeyBackground " (color)"
Specifies the background color for key windows. This color is used mainly
for the background of window title bars and icons.
.TP
.BI KeyForeground " (color)"
Specifies the foreground color for key windows. This color is used mainly
for the text of window title bars and icon titles.
.TP
.BI MenuFont " (font name)"
Font to be used for buttons in menus and OSWM attention panels.
.I
Default value: lucidasans-12.
.TP
.BI MinimalDecor " (list of strings)"
Specifies a list of windows that are to be decorated minimally.  Decoration
on such windows includes only a thin border and resize corners, with no
title bar or window button.  The value should be a whitespace-separated list
of strings.  Each string should specify an application's class or instance
name, as passed in the WM_CLASS property.  Most applications set this
property based on the name of the executable (i.e. argv[0]).  For example,
to specify that the clock and the calculator should be decorated minimally,
you would use the following resource:
.nf
.sp
	oswm.MinimalDecor: calctool clock
.sp
.fi
Many applications will allow you to override the value of the WM_CLASS
property using the
.B \-name
option on the command line.
.I
Default value: (null).
.TP
.BI MultiClickTimeout " (integer) " *
The time, in tenths of a second, that differentiates a double-click
from two single clicks.  This value is also used to distinguish the
click-move-click and press-drag-release modes of pop-up menus.  If the MENU
button is held down longer than this amount of time, the menu is considered
to be in press-drag-release mode, otherwise it is considered to be in
click-move-click mode.
.I
Default value: 5.
.TP
.BI Numeric " (locale name)"
Specifies the numeric format OPEN LOOK locale category.
See the section on Locale Handling for more details.
.TP
.BI PaintWorkspace " (boolean)"
If true,
.B oswm
will use the
.B WorkspaceColor
resource to set the workspace (root window) background color.  If false,
.B oswm
will not change the root window background.  This is useful
If you prefer to set your own workspace color using
.BR xsetroot (1)
or a similar program.
.I
Default value: true.
.TP
.BI PPositionCompat " (boolean)"
Turns on backward compatibility for older applications that have a habit of
always setting the PPosition flag in the WM_NORMAL_HINTS property, even when
they haven't set a position.  This most often occurs with X11R3-based
clients.  Without backward compatibility, these windows will always appear
in the upper-left corner of the screen.  With backward compatibility, these
windows will be positioned according to the default OPEN LOOK window
placement policy, along the diagonal of the screen.  This option will not
affect windows that have a geometry specified on the command line.
.I
Default value: true.
.TP
.BI PopupJumpCursor " (boolean) " *
Specifies whether to warp the cursor to pop-up windows. Works only for OpenWindows applications, not for OpenStep applications.
.I
Default value: false.
.TP
.BI PrintWarnings " (boolean)"
Determines whether 
.B oswm
will issue non-fatal warning messages (such as X protocol errors)
to its standard error file.
.I
Default value: false.
.TP
.BI RubberBandThickness " (integer)"
Specifies the thickness of the "rubber-band" line that is drawn when a
window is resized, when a group of windows is selected by dragging a
rectangle on the root, and when a window is moved and the value of the
.B DragWindow
resource is false.
.I
Default value: 2.
.TP
.BI SetInput " (enumeration) " *
Controls the input focus mode.  If the value is "select", it
means click-to-focus.  If the value is "followmouse", it means
focus-follows-mouse.
.I
Default value: select.
.TP
.BI ShowMoveGeometry " (boolean)"
Indicates whether the geometry box should be shown while moving windows and
icons.
.I
Default value: false.
.TP
.BI ShowResizeGeometry " (boolean)"
Indicates whether the geometry box should be shown while resizing windows.
.I
Default value: false.
.TP
.BI StartDSDM " (boolean)"
Determines whether
.B oswm
will provide the DSDM service for OpenWindows applications. 
.I
Default value: true.
.TP
.BI TextFont " (font name)"
Font used in the text of OSWM attention panels.
.I
Default: lucidasans-12.
.if 0 \{
.TP
.BI timeFormat " (locale name)"
Specify the time format OPEN LOOK locale category.
See the section on Locale Handling for more details.
\}
.TP
.BI TitleFont " (font name)"
Font used in title bars atop windows and menus.
.I
Default: lucidasans-12 Bold.
.TP
.BI TransientsSaveUnder " (boolean)"
Specifies whether the save-under attribute of frames of transient windows is
to be forced on.
.I
Default value: false.
.TP
.BI WindowCacheSize " (integer)"
.B oswm
keeps a cache of windows in order to minimize unnecessary window creation
and destruction.  The value of this resource specifies the size of this
cache.  Setting this resource to zero disables the window cache.
.I
Default value: 500.
.TP
.BI WindowMenu " (boolean)"
Specifies whether a pop-up window menu appears when when pressing the MENU
moust button over a window's title bar or resize handle.
.I
Default value: False.
.TP
.BI WorkspaceBitmapBg " (color specification)"
Specifies the background color used for the workspace bitmap when the
.B WorkspaceStyle
resource is "tilebitmap".
.I
Default value: black.
.TP
.BI WorkspaceBitmapFg " (color specification)"
Specifies the foreground color used for the workspace bitmap when the
.B WorkspaceStyle
resource is "tilebitmap".
.I
Default value: white.
.TP
.BI WorkspaceBitmapFile " (filename)"
Specifies a X bitmap file that will be used for the workspace background
when WorkspaceStyle is "tilebitmap".
If the filename is not a full path name, the following directories
are searched:
.nf
.sp
	$OPENWINHOME/etc/workspace/patterns
	$OPENWINHOME/include/X11/include/bitmaps
	/usr/X11/include/X11/include/bitmaps
.sp
.fi
.I
Default value: gray.
.TP
.BI WorkspaceColor " (color) " *
Specifies the color for the workspace (root window).  On startup,
.B oswm
will set the root window's background color to the color specified by this
resource, and it will restore the default background on shutdown.  To turn
off this behavior, see the description of the
.B PaintWorkspace
resource.
.TP
.BI WorkspaceStyle " (enumeration)"
This controls how the workspace is painted.
If the value is "paintcolor", the solid color
specified by the
.B WorkspaceColor
resource is used.
If the value is "tilebitmap", the workspace is tiled with a bitmap
using the
.B
WorkspaceBitmapFile, WorkspaceBitmapBg,
and
.B WorkspaceBitmapFg
resources.
If the value is "default", the server default root-weave pattern is used.
If the value of the
.B PaintWorkspace
resource is false, then all of these resources are ignored and the workspace
color or pattern is left unchanged.
.I
Default value: paintcolor
.\" ========================================================================
.SH SCREEN RESOURCES
.LP
In addition to the global resources described above,
.B
oswm
also uses screen-specific resources.  
The first component of the resource specification is the trailing pathname
component of
.BR argv[0] .
The second component is the screen number appended to the string `screen'.
The screens are numbered sequentially starting from zero.
The third component of the resource name is the name of the resource itself.
For example,
.nf
.sp
	oswm.screen1.WorkspaceColor:	gray
.sp
.fi
set the workspace color on screen number 1 to gray.  Generally, users should
use the OpenStep Preferences.app to set the WorkspaceColor.
To affect all screens, you can use resource wildcarding.  For example,
`oswm*KeyBackground: MidnightBlue' will set KeyBackground for all screens
.B oswm
manages.
.LP
Unlike many of the global resources, the screen-specific resources
are only applied at oswm startup.
.LP
The following resources are available both globally and on a per-screen
basis.  A screen-specific resource overrides the corresponding global
setting for that screen.  Note that screen specific settings for
WorkspaceColor and WindowColor will only affect \fBoswm\fP;
this may cause clashes with XView clients which only use the global setting.
.nf
.sp
	Background
	Foreground
	KeyBackground
	KeyForeground
	WorkspaceColor
.sp
.fi
.LP
The following resources allow the selection of visuals other
than the screen's default.  Available visuals may be listed with
the
.BR xdpyinfo (1)
command.
.TP
.BI Depth " (integer)"
Specify the visual depth to be used when searching for visuals.
.I
Default value: none.
.TP
.BI Visual " (enumeration)"
Specify the visual class to be used when searching for visuals.
Valid visual classes are
.BR StaticGray ,
.BR GrayScale ,
.BR StaticColor ,
.BR PseudoColor ,
.BR TrueColor ,
and
.BR DirectColor .
Names are case-sensitive.
.I
Default value: none.
.TP
.BI VisualID " (id)"
Specify the visual ID to be used.
Note: specifying a visual by its ID is not portable, as IDs may vary from
server to server and even from one invocation of a server to the next.
.I
Default value: none.
.\" ========================================================================
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
DISPLAY
Specifies the X11 server to which to connect.
.TP
LANG, LC_CTYPE, LC_MESSAGE, LC_TIME
These variables specify which locale to use when other methods of locale
announcement are not available.  (See the section on Locale Handling for
more details.)
.TP
OSWMMENU, OLWMMENU
Specifies a file to use for the Desktop Menu.
.TP
OPENSTEPHOME
Specifies the location of the OpenStep software.
.\" ========================================================================
.SH FILES
.TP
$HOME/.openstep/.oswmdefaults
Contains oswm resources set by OpenStep apps (e.g. Preferences.app)
.TP
$HOME/.openstep\-menu\fI.localename\fP
.TP
$HOME/.openstep\-menu
Contains the user-customized Desktop Menu specification.
.TP
$HOME/.openwin\-menu
Contains the user-customized Desktop Menu specification.
.TP
$OPENSTEPHOME/lib/openstep\-menu.\fIlocale-name\fP
.TP
$OPENSTEPHOME/lib/openstep\-menu
Contains the default Desktop Menu specification.
.TP
$OPENWINHOME/lib/openstep\-menu
Contains the default Desktop Menu specification.
.TP
$OPENSTEPHOME/lib/app\-defaults/Oswm
.TP
$OPENSTEPHOME/lib/locale/\fIlocale-name\fP/app\-defaults/Olwm
Specifies system-wide default resource values.
.\" ========================================================================
.SH TRADEMARKS
.LP
OPEN LOOK is a registered trademark of Novell, Inc.
.br
The X Window system is a trademark of the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.
.br
OpenWindows is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.br
OpenStep is a trademark of NeXT Software, Inc.
.br
.\" ========================================================================
.SH REFERENCES
.LP
Rosenthal, David S.H.
.I Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual for X11.
Copyright 1989 by the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.  This document is commonly known as the ICCCM.  It
is an X Consortium Standard that specifies conventions to which all X11
clients must adhere.
.LP
OPEN LOOK Graphical User Interface Functional Specification.  Copyright 1989
by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, Inc.  ISBN
0\-201\-52365\-5.
.LP
OPEN LOOK Graphical User Interface
International Extensions Functional Specification.
Draft 1.1 (May 10, 1990).
Copyright 1990 by Unix International.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.BR dsdm (1),
.BR olwmslave (1),
.BR openstep (1),
.BR openwin (1),
.BR owplaces (1),
.BR props (1),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR xinit (1),
.BR Xsun (1)
.\" ========================================================================
.SH NOTES
.LP
The resource names do not follow any classing structure.  There is no
general way to specify resources on a per-client basis.
.LP
The Exit menu item on the Desktop Menu doesn't really shut down the
server.  It kills off all clients being managed by the window manager, and
then it exits the window manager itself.  This works properly
if some outside agent such as
.BR xinit (1)
or
.BR xdm (1)
is waiting for the window manager or a client to exit.  The outside agent
will take care of shutting down the server or reinitializing it.  If you've
started up the server a different way, this option may not work.  Instead,
the server will be left running with no clients and no window manager
running, and you will have to login from elsewhere to kill the server.  A
common cause of this problem is an \fB.xinitrc\fP script that inadvertently
leaves a non-windowed application (such as a daemon) running in the
background.  If the \fB.xinitrc\fP script ends with the \fBwait\fP shell
command, it will never terminate.  The fix is to change the script to either
wait for a particular process-id, or to run the daemon in a subshell:
.nf
.sp
	(daemon &)
.sp
.fi
.LP
.B Oswm
cannot manage multiple locales at one time,
therefore all clients should be running in the same locale.
The "C" locale is the exception.  Applications using the "C" locale (such as
non-internationalized applications) can be mixed with applications using one
other locale.
.LP
.B Oswm
does not handle different sizes of the glyph fonts well.
Each locale can define a different size for the default font
(for example, the default glyph font size is 12 for the
"C" locale and is 14 for the "japanese" locale).
.B Oswm
does not re-position the window decorations after switching locale,
therefore the window decorations may appear
to be wrong.
To remedy this problem partially,
.B oswm
will not change the font when locale is switching from
non-"C" locale to the "C" locale.
.LP
There is no input focus feedback for non-rectangular windows.  The title
string of non-rectangular windows cannot be displayed.  Non-rectangular icon
windows are not supported.
.LP
.B Oswm
will not dynamically track screen-specific and client-specific resources.
Changes to global resources, key binding resources, and modifier resources
are applied dynamically.
.LP
Resources that specify time values use inconsistent units.  Some resources
are in tenths of a second, some are in milliseconds, and some are in
microseconds.
.IX "oswm" "" "\f3oswm\f1(1) \(em OpenStep window manager" "" PAGE END
.IX "Solaris OpenStep" "Open" "WorkShop OpenStep" "OpenStep window manager \(em \f3oswm\f1(1)" PAGE END
.IX "OpenStep" "Open" "OpenStep" "OpenStep window manager \(em \f3oswm\f1(1)" PAGE END
