{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil LucidaSans;\f1\fnil LucidaSans-Typewriter;}
\paperw11820
\paperh13700
\margl120
\margr120
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\grayb1000\cb1\pard\tx600\tx1200\tx1820\tx2420\tx3020\tx3640\tx4240\tx4840\tx5460\tx6060\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs24\gray0\fc2\cf2 \

\b\ul Customizing your Desktop\

\b0\ulnone \
There is no "easy" way to customize your desktop, since it is fully\
integrated with the underlying Solaris Operating Enviroment. The\
good news is that you can use whatever resources are available in\
Solaris to make your changes. Below I will make a brief comment\
on each file that is customizable, and how to do this.\
\
1. 
\i Changing your OpenStep Preferences\

\i0 \
There are several ways of doing this. The easiest way is by using the\
supplied 
\i Preferences.app
\i0 . The drawback of this method is that it does\
not include all configurable options. A second way is by using the 
\i dwrite\

\i0 utility which can be found in the 
\i /usr/openstep/bin
\i0  directory. Use this \
utility only AFTER you have found the settings you wish to change, and \
the correct  syntax for doing so. The third way, my personal favorite, is \
using the 
\i vi 
\i0  editor to edit the  
\i $HOME/.openstep/User.defs
\i0  file. This option\
gives room for more flexible changes, and allows you to add undocumented\
features to you apps.\
\
2. 
\i Setting a permament background image\

\i0 \
If you want to set a default background image to your OpenStep Desktop, you\
can use the osxpm(1) utility. Add a line similar to the following line to your\

\i .openstep-init 
\i0 file:\
\

\i exec /usr/openstep/bin/osxpm $HOME/Backgrounds/Image.xpm\

\i0 \
(osxpm(1) is an xpm utility for OpenStep to change your background pixmap)\
\
To create an 
\i .openstep-init 
\i0 file do the following\
\
$ vi ~/.openstep-init\
\
add the line as described above. If you wish to use a different format than XPM,\
you can take advantage of several other programs if they are installed.\
Here are three examples. Use only one.\
\

\i exec /usr/openstep/bin/osxpm $HOME/Backgrounds/Image.xpm\
exec xv -root -quit <path to image>\
exec wmsetbg -t <path to image> (wmsetbg(1) is included with WindowMaker)\
exec xsetroot -solid slategray4\

\i0 \
save the file.. \

\i :wq!\

\i0 \
Remember to 
\i chmod +x ~/.openstep-init 
\i0 else it will not be parsed.\
\
Log out of OpenStep, and log in again, and your image should appear,\
or just type\
$ 
\i sh .openstep-init\

\i0 \
It is also possible to set a default background color (no image) using the\
OpenStep 
\i Preferences.app
\i0  utility.\
\
3. 
\i Creating Apps for UserApps\

\i0 \
I have included a template in UserApps that can be used as a base for your\
apps. Remember though, that if your app is not in your path, you MUST \
comment out the wrapper functions, or even delete them.  Then add to\
the 
\i MyApp.app/MyApp
\i0  (the name is just an example) file:\

\i exec <path to my app>\

\i0 Then you must update the file 
\i MyApp.app/__ICONS/__header
\i0  to reflect the\
new name of your app. You MUST also add an image to your app, it MUST\
be in 
\i tiff 
\i0 format, and it MUST have the name 
\i app
\i0 . Put this image in your\

\i MyApp.app/__ICON
\i0  directory (again, it MUST be called 
\i app
\i0 ).\
\
Select  
\i View -> Update Viewers
\i0   from the 
\i Workspace
\i0  menu on your left \
(if it is hidden, doubleclock on the OpenStep logo at the top of the dock), \
and your new app should appear in your 
\i UserApps
\i0  folder. If your app has \
no icon, go back and try again, as you surely missed out on something.\
\
You may also drag and attach your new app to the Icon Dock to your right. \
If there is no room, you can remove an icon by dragging it away from the dock.\
\

\b NOTE: 
\b0\i The wrapper is only useful for files in your PATH, if it is not, the wrapper will\
fail. This is not a bug, but a feature.\

\i0 \
4.  
\i Customizing your Browser\

\i0 \
The initial view if the 
\i Browser
\i0  has been set to Icon. You can change the default\
behaviour by either changing your 
\i View
\i0  in the 
\i Workspace
\i0  menu, or using the\

\i Preferences
\i0  option from the 
\i Info
\i0  menu. From the 
\i Preferences
\i0  menu you can also\
change the layout of the 
\i Browser
\i0  to a certain degree. Here you can set the size\
of the view, spacing between icons, and even disable the resize bar below the\
shelf. \
\
5. 
\i Changing default tool\

\i0 \
It is also possible to change the default tool for any registered application. Just\
rightclick on the file, select  
\i Tools -> Inspector
\i0 , then select 
\i Tools
\i0  again from the\

\i pulldown
\i0  menu, and select an app from the list. If you do not want a permanent\
change, just 
\i doubleclick 
\i0 on the prefered icon. You can add any tools by adding \
more applications to you system, and adding the filetype to the apps 
\i __header.\

\i0 \
\
-- \
Luke Th. Bullock\
Oslo, 10/03/06\
\
\

}
